Add child pages to IJsPage (#338)
BSI-Business-Systems-Integration-AG/org.eclipse.scout.docs: docs/modules/howtos/pages/scout-classic/js-page-how-to.adoc

[[how-to-js-page]]
= How to Add a Scout JS Page in a Scout Classic Outline

include::common:partial$_header.adoc[]

A Scout Classic outline is able to contain pages implemented in Scout JS. This works via the JsPage, a Java page wrapping a page implemented in Scout JS.
The next few code snippets demonstrate how to use the JsPage.

[source,java,opts=novalidate]
.Example of a simple JsPage
----
package example.client;

import org.eclipse.scout.rt.client.ui.desktop.outline.pages.js.AbstractJsPage;

public class ExampleJsPage extends AbstractJsPage {

  @Override
  protected String getConfiguredJsFormObjectType() {
    return "example.ExampleJsPage";
  }
}
----

> The page can be used as any other page implemented in Scout Classic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The page can be added to the outline like any other page implemented in Scout Classic.
```
There are not a lot of other "uses" possible.

The only thing that needs to be implemented in Java is creating child pages.

[source,typescript,opts=novalidate]
.Implementation of the page in Scout JS
----
import {ajax, BaseDoEntity, ObjectOrModel, PageWithTable, PageWithTableModel, TableRow, typeName} from '@eclipse-scout/core';
import model from './ExampleJsPageModel';

export class ExampleJsPage extends PageWithTable {

  protected override _jsonModel(): PageWithTableModel {
    return model();
  }

  protected override _loadTableData(searchFilter: any): JQuery.Promise<ExampleTableDataDo> {
    return ajax.postDataObject('api/examples/list', this._withMaxRowCountContribution(searchFilter));
  }

  protected override _transformTableDataToTableRows(tableData: ExampleTableDataDo): ObjectOrModel<TableRow>[] {
    return tableData.examples.map(example => {
      return {
        cells: [
          example.id,
          example.subject
        ]
      };
    });
  }
}

@typeName('example.ExampleTableData')
export class ExampleTableDataDo extends BaseDoEntity {
  examples?: ExampleDo[];
}

@typeName('example.Example')
export class ExampleDo extends BaseDoEntity {
  id?: string;
  subject?: string;
}
----

> == Create Child Pages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Creating Child Pages
```

> As the outline is implemented in Scout Classic the whole state of the outline needs to be present on the UI server. This includes all pages and e.g. information which pages are expanded, selected, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the outline is implemented in Scout Classic the whole state of the outline needs to be present on the UI server. This includes all pages and information which pages are expanded, selected, etc.
```

Therefore, the child pages of a JsPage need to be created in Scout Classic as well.
This can be done by overriding `AbstractJsPage.createChildPage(IPageParamDo)` or `AbstractJsPage.createChildPage(IId)`.

[source,java,opts=novalidate]
.Creating child pages using an IPageParamDo
----
@Override
protected IPage<?> createChildPage(IPageParamDo pageParam) {
  if (!(pageParam instanceof SomePageParam somePageParam)) {
    return null;
  }

  return new SomePage(somePageParam);
}
----

[source,java,opts=novalidate]
.Creating child pages using an IId
----
@Override
protected IPage<?> createChildPage(IId id) {
  if (!(id instanceof SomeId someId)) {
    return null;
  }

  return new SomePage(someId);
}
----

As Scout Classic can not know the page params or ids, the child page creation needs to be triggered by the JsPage in Scout JS.
The `JsPageHelper` can be used to manage the child pages of a JsPage.

[source,typescript,opts=novalidate]

> .Adding the `JsPageHelper` to a JsPage

Reviewer: Merge this into the next code snippet?
